What's going on everyone? Welcome to
your daily digest for Friday, April
25th, where I bring you fact-based,
non-sensational, objective information
about what's going on in the broader
blockchain and cryptocurrency space. And
boy, do we have a doozy today. So, happy
Friday. Let's kick this off. The Federal
Reserve is retracting guidance that
discourages banks from engaging in
crypto and stable coin activities that
were previously discouraged um from
allowing banks to participate in The Fed
has also joined the FDIC and the Office
of the Comproller of Currency to reser
re reverse their two previous statements
regarding banks exposure to
crypto. The House is preparing a second
stab at its crypto market bill.
Um, which basically means that the House
Representatives are in final stages of
drafting a crypto market structure bill.
Um and this comes at a time when the
stable act and the genius act uh the
stable coin bills going through house
and senate respectively are going
through their committee markups. So
progress being made. The ultimate goal
is for both the stable coin and market
structure bill to be passed by the end
of the summer. According to President
Trump, the SEC is dropping yet another
case against Dragon Train, Dragon Chain
over its ICO that took place in
2018. Um, this is just another long
list, sorry, it took place in August of
2017. This is just another long list in
projects that are being having their
litigation dropped by the SEC. And of
course, as we can see here, token price
responded favorably to that news.
In ETF news, Bitwise has filed to launch
a near ETF in Delaware as we start to
see more and more proc crypto
legislation coming out of the
administration. However, the SEC has
also delayed its decisions on Polka Dot
and Hideera's ETFs
um and those will be delayed until June
11th. Um, the commission finds it
appropriate to designate a longer period
within which to take action on the
proposed rule change, which basically
means that new ETFs are being submitted,
but the SEC is not rushing into
approving
them. And this was a nice article that
came out of Coint Cointelegraph where it
states the sentiment of Bitcoin ETFs is
rewiring market structure. And long
story short, um the argument being made
in this article is that the volatility
is being reduced because of these
largecale marketwide ETFs for Bitcoin.
Um and that we're just in a new era for
the digital asset class. The argu the
article also makes an argument that the
same forces for that are responsible for
um flattening out the volatility of
Bitcoin may also be removing the
opportunity for the lifeblood of altcoin
speculation. And uh the article notes
one of the most notable shifts in 2025
is the absence of a classic alt season.
Every four years, Bitcoin has h haveved
and there has been a corresponding uh
parabolic movement of various altcoins
during this four-year cycle and we
haven't really seen that this year. It
typically happens the year after the
having which occurred for Bitcoin last
year. Um so this should be the year
where we're seeing things like Ethereum
and Near and Atom and all these other
alt L1s really mooning, but we're not
seeing that at all. Um, so this article
speculates that this could just be a
byproduct of institutions getting into
the
game. Another cool piece of network
stats, uh, Fidelity Digital Assets has
pointed out that there's 2.6 million
Bitcoin on exchanges. This is the lowest
level amount of Bitcoin that's been on
exchanges since November 2018.
Since November
2024, over 425,000 Bitcoin have moved
off exchanges. So remember folks, not
your keys, not your coins. If you don't
have your Bitcoin on your own wallet
that you secure yourself, then it is not
your Bitcoin. If you don't know what I'm
talking about, maybe you should take a
little bit of a look into that. OpenC, a
now crosschain NFT marketplace, saw a
massive amount of activity um over the
past quarter with
um 40% of the total market trading
volume in
NFTTS. Um and so we can just see here
the amount of NFTts per wallet
distribution. Um and the the vast
majority uh nearly 70% are via
OpenC. Ethereum devs are testing a 4x
increase in gas limit for the uh Fusaka
hard fork which will be taking place
after Pekra which is coming up next. I
hope I got that right. Um and what is
gas limit? The gas limit on Ethereum
refers to the maximum number of steps
that can be executed by the transaction
on the Ethereum network. Currently,
that's at 20 million. Basically, this
means that after a certain limit, in
order to pay for a transaction on the
Ethereum network, you will have to spend
more and more and more in gas costs,
increasing how much it costs for you to
perform a swap or to migrate a token or
to move Ethereum from your private
wallet to a custodial exchange. Um, this
also has implications on how much it
costs for a project smart contract to
operate on top of the network. So really
what this is supposed to do by
increasing the gas limit is allowing the
Ethereum layer 1 to scale more and to
reduce congestion during times when a
lot of people want to be using the
Ethereum network which historically has
jacked transaction fees up to 10 20 40
100 sometimes even $200 depending on
what you're trying to do.
Um, additionally, Ethereum saw the
largest single day inflow in a long
faking time with
449,000 Ethereum in accumulation
addresses over the past 10 days. Uh,
Ethereum inflows into accumulation
addresses reached their highest level
since 2018. It has been since 2018 that
wallets cumulatively um got access to
449,000 Ethereum. Uh so this is a nice
little market um onchain piece of
activity to see. And just to note that
449K had an average valued price of
17,000
$1,750. Um, so yeah, congratulations to
the Ethereum network. That was the most
significant single day inflow in
Ethereum's history. Now, to wrap up with
some fun uh city and statebased news,
we'll start with the negative. Uh, a
city in Arkansas has once again reject
rejected a crypto mining proposal. Um,
in Vonia, Arkansas, the residents and
the planning commission, the planning
commission unanimously rejected a
proposal to establish a mining facility
within city limits following staunch
community push back. This is not the
first time that the city has pushed back
on launching a Bitcoin mining operation
in 2023. There was also a denial from VO
AR that wanted to build. Um, and this
also followed uh another strong year of
opposition from voluonia residents. Uh,
that being said, in 2024, the Arkansas
State House passed two bills to also
restrict cryptocurrency mining within
the state. Um, a fun little headline in
here that I'm having a hard time finding
right now and I don't want to spend too
much time digging into. Um, but the
residents called themselves a natural
state and not a Bitcoin state. Uh,
Slovenia's Slovenia's capital of Ljubana
has ranked as the world's most crypto
friendly city. What does that mean?
Well, the reviewers took a look at
regulations, ti tax tax environments,
lifestyle factors, and digital and
crypto infrastructure and rated
um uh the top 20 cities um including
Ljubana, Hong Kong, Zurg, Z Singapore,
and Abu Dhabi as the top five. Only one
US city, Madison, Wisconsin. Shout out
to them. I did not know that they were
even that crypto friendly. Um but some
other uh evaluations included city
licensing frameworks, capital gains tax
rates, GDP per capita, housing
affordability, and internet speeds. And
lastly, an Italian town of Fornelli in
the Moise region of Italy will be
dedicating a monument to the
pseudominate pseudonmous founder of
Bitcoin, Satoshi Nakamoto. The town
states that they
um added to the the monument because of
all the new ideas that come from their
young people. So, lot of news, a lot of
fun things, a lot of okay things
happening across the crypto space over
the past 24 hours. If you appreciated
this video, please don't hesitate to
give me a heart, to slap me a follow on
Twitter or YouTube, and to subscribe to
our subreddit, our Smart Economy
podcast, where you can keep up to date
with all of our daily digest videos, our
bimonthly podcast episodes, and our
weekly Twitter spaces. Have a safe and
fun and awesome weekend. I might not be
catching you as much next week because
I'll be in Dubai for Token 2049, but
we'll see what we can do. Cheers.